devlog_20240215_1056.md, before:

# DevInsight Development Log - February 15, 2024 10:56 AM

## Status Bar Formatting Issue

Currently tracking an issue with the status bar formatting in the TUI. The status bar shows:

```
Connected | 50 logs 156WIWV | 50/50 | RUNNING 156 156
```

### Issues:
1. Filter indicators (WIWV) are running together with log counts
2. Numbers are being duplicated at the end of the status line
3. The RUNNING status sometimes gets truncated to just "R"

### Current Implementation:
```rust
let filters = format!("[{} {} {} {} {}]",
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Error) { "E".red() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Warning) { "W".yellow() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Info) { "I".green() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Debug) { "D".blue() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Verbose) { "V".white() } else { "-".dimmed() },
);
```

### Expected Format:
```
🟢 Connected | 50 logs | Filters [E W I D V] | 50/50 | RUNNING | TAIL | Logs
```

### Potential Solutions:
1. Adjust spacing in filter format string
2. Review terminal width calculations
3. Investigate color trait handling
4. Consider using fixed-width formatting for numbers
5. Add padding between status sections

### Next Steps:
1. Investigate if this is a terminal width issue
2. Test different color implementations
3. Consider creating a dedicated status bar widget
4. Add proper width constraints for each section

### Impact:
- Functionality is not affected
- UI remains usable but could be more polished
- No impact on log processing or filtering

### Related Components:
- `draw_normal_status` function in `src/tui.rs`
- Color handling between ratatui and colored crates
- Terminal width calculations

Will address in upcoming maintenance pass after main feature set is stable.

Commit message:

fix(ui): Improve title bar and status bar layout
Major UI improvements focusing on layout and readability:

Title Bar Changes:
- Move connection status to top-right corner
- Add proper spacing for tab titles
- Improve visual separation between elements
- Fix border connection issues

Status Bar Improvements:
- Reorganize status elements for better readability
- Add fixed-width formatting for numbers
- Improve filter indicator spacing
- Add clear separation between static and dynamic elements

Technical Changes:
- Add precise width calculations for title bar elements
- Improve padding calculations for alignment
- Fix color handling between ratatui and colored
- Add proper border compensation

The status bar now shows:
[E W I D V] RUNNING TAIL | 127 logs | Position: 54/54

Known Issues to Address:
- Connection status alignment needs fine-tuning
- Status bar number formatting could be improved
- Some minor spacing inconsistencies remain

Testing:
- Verified with varying log counts
- Tested with different terminal widths
- Confirmed all status indicators remain visible
- Validated color consistency

devlog_20240215_1056.md, after:

# DevInsight Development Log - February 15, 2024 10:56 AM

## Status Bar Formatting Issue

Currently tracking an issue with the status bar formatting in the TUI that worsens with increased log volume. The status bar progressively degrades:

Small log count:
```
Connected | 50 logs 156WIWV | 50/50 | RUNNING 156 156
```

Large log count (1000+ logs):
```
Connected | 54 logs 1406 logs | Filters [E 54/54 | 3mW I D V] | 1012/1012 | 994069406
```

### Issues:
1. Filter indicators (WIWV) are running together with log counts
2. Numbers are being duplicated at the end of the status line
3. The RUNNING status sometimes gets truncated to just "R"
4. Log counts are being displayed multiple times
5. Status bar formatting breaks down completely with large numbers
6. Filter indicators are being split by position numbers

### Root Cause Investigation:
- Possible string length overflow with large numbers
- Color codes may be affecting string length calculations
- Status sections bleeding into each other without proper boundaries
- Terminal width constraints not being properly enforced

### Current Implementation:
```rust
let filters = format!("[{} {} {} {} {}]",
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Error) { "E".red() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Warning) { "W".yellow() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Info) { "I".green() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Debug) { "D".blue() } else { "-".dimmed() },
    if state.level_filters.contains(&LogLevel::Verbose) { "V".white() } else { "-".dimmed() },
);
```

### Expected Format:
```
🟢 Connected | 50 logs | Filters [E W I D V] | 50/50 | RUNNING | TAIL | Logs
```

### Potential Solutions:
1. Adjust spacing in filter format string
2. Review terminal width calculations
3. Investigate color trait handling
4. Consider using fixed-width formatting for numbers
5. Add padding between status sections

### Next Steps:
1. Investigate if this is a terminal width issue
2. Test different color implementations
3. Consider creating a dedicated status bar widget
4. Add proper width constraints for each section

### Impact:
- Functionality is not affected
- UI remains usable but could be more polished
- No impact on log processing or filtering

### Related Components:
- `draw_normal_status` function in `src/tui.rs`
- Color handling between ratatui and colored crates
- Terminal width calculations

Will address in upcoming maintenance pass after main feature set is stable.
