README.md, before:

# DevInsight v0.1.0 🔍

## Installation

```bash
# Install directly from crates.io
cargo install devinsight

# Or build from source
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight.git
cd DevInsight
cargo install --path .
```

## Quick Start
```bash
# Basic TUI mode
devinsight -i

# TUI with log storage
devinsight -i --save

# Filter specific app logs
devinsight -i --tag MyApp
```

## Key Features in v0.1.0
- 🔄 Real-time log streaming with tail mode
- 🎨 Interactive filtering (e/w/i/d/v)
- 🔍 Full-text search with live results
- 💾 Automatic log storage and rotation
- 📊 Statistics view
- ⌨️ Intuitive keyboard shortcuts

# DevInsight: Real-time Log Analyzer for Developers 🚀

![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight/build.yml?branch=main)
![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight)

## Overview
**DevInsight** is a blazing-fast, Rust-powered log analysis tool designed for developers who need real-time Android log monitoring. Starting with **Android logcat**, DevInsight provides color-coded output, advanced filtering, and intelligent insights. Future expansions will include support for iOS syslogs, Docker logs, and cloud-based logging solutions.

## Features
✅ **Real-time log streaming** with color-coded output
✅ **Advanced filtering** by log level and tags
✅ **Multiple buffer support** (main, system, crash)
✅ **Flexible output formats**
✅ **Timestamp-based filtering**
✅ **Optimized Rust performance** for low-latency processing

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Rust and Cargo
- Android Debug Bridge (ADB)
- Connected Android device or emulator

### Ubuntu/Linux
```bash
# Install Rust
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source $HOME/.cargo/env

# Install ADB for Android Debugging
sudo apt update && sudo apt install android-tools-adb -y

# Clone DevInsight Repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight.git
cd DevInsight
cargo build --release
```

### macOS
```bash
# Install Homebrew (if not already installed)
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install Rust
brew install rust

# Install ADB
brew install android-platform-tools

# Clone DevInsight Repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight.git
cd DevInsight
cargo build --release
```

## Usage

### Basic Commands
```bash
# Basic log viewing
cargo run

# Force color output (if needed)
FORCE_COLOR=1 cargo run
```

### Filtering Options
```bash
# Filter by log level
cargo run -- --filter E    # Show only errors
cargo run -- --filter W    # Show only warnings
cargo run -- --filter I    # Show only info
cargo run -- --filter D    # Show only debug
cargo run -- --filter V    # Show only verbose

# Filter by tag
cargo run -- --tag MyApp   # Show logs only from 'MyApp'

# Combine filters
cargo run -- --filter E --tag MyApp  # Show only errors from 'MyApp'
```

### Buffer Selection
```bash
# Select specific buffer
cargo run -- --buffer main    # Main buffer only
cargo run -- --buffer system  # System buffer only
cargo run -- --buffer crash   # Crash buffer only
```

### Output Formatting
```bash
# Change log format
cargo run -- --format brief    # Brief format
cargo run -- --format process  # Show process ID
cargo run -- --format thread   # Show thread info
cargo run -- --format raw      # Raw log output
cargo run -- --format tag      # Tag-focused format
```

### Log Management
```bash
# Clear logs before starting
cargo run -- --clear

# Show logs since specific time
cargo run -- --since "2024-03-20 10:00:00"
```

### Color Coding
The output is color-coded for better readability:
- 🔴 **Red** - Errors (E)
- ⚠️ **Yellow** - Warnings (W)
- ℹ️ **Green** - Info (I)
- 🔧 **Blue** - Debug (D)
- 📝 **White** - Verbose (V)

## Command Line Options
| Option | Short | Description |
|--------|--------|-------------|
| `--filter` | `-f` | Filter logs by level (E, W, I, D, V) |
| `--tag` | `-t` | Filter logs by specific tag |
| `--clear` | `-c` | Clear logs before starting |
| `--since` | `-T` | Show logs since timestamp |
| `--buffer` | `-b` | Select buffer (main, system, crash) |
| `--format` | `-v` | Set output format |

## Roadmap
🚀 **Phase 1 (Android Logcat MVP)**
- ✅ Basic CLI for streaming logs
- ✅ Error and warning filtering
- ✅ Custom tag-based search
- ⏳ Interactive TUI interface using `ratatui`

⚡ **Phase 2 (Advanced Logging & Expansion)**
- Persistent log storage for later analysis
- iOS syslog support
- Docker container log integration
- Cloud integration (GCP, AWS, Firebase logging)
- Automated issue detection & insights

## Contributing
We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:
1. Fork the repo and clone locally
2. Create a new feature branch (`git checkout -b feature-name`)
3. Make your changes and commit (`git commit -m "Added new feature"`)
4. Push to your fork and submit a Pull Request

## License
MIT License © 2024 Adam Deane

## Connect
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Adam_Deane-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-deane-93456927/)

### Log Storage
DevInsight now supports persistent log storage with automatic rotation:

```bash
# Save logs to file (default location: ./logs/logcat_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.jsonl)
cargo run -- --save

# Save logs in interactive mode
cargo run -- -i --save

# Specify custom save location
cargo run -- --save --save-path /path/to/logs
cargo run -- --save --save-path ~/android_logs    # Store in home directory
cargo run -- --save --save-path /tmp/my_logs      # Store in temporary directory

# Set maximum log file size before rotation (in MB)
cargo run -- --save --max-size 200
```

Logs are stored in JSONL format with the following features:
- Files named with timestamp pattern: `logcat_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.jsonl`
- Automatic log rotation based on file size
- Timestamp-based querying
- Device ID tracking
- Full log level and tag preservation

Example log file path:
```
./logs/logcat_20240321_143022.jsonl  # Default location
~/android_logs/logcat_20240321_143022.jsonl  # When using --save-path ~/android_logs
```

## Testing and Debugging

### Generate Test Logs
Use these commands to generate test logs with different levels and patterns:

```bash
# Generate multiple error logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p e -t TestApp 'Error message'"; done

# Generate warning logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p w -t TestApp 'Warning message'"; done

# Generate info logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p i -t TestApp 'Info message'"; done

# Generate debug logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p d -t TestApp 'Debug message'"; done

# Generate verbose logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p v -t TestApp 'Verbose message'"; done

# Generate mixed logs
for level in e w i d v; do
    adb shell "log -p $level -t TestApp 'Test message for level $level'"
done

# Generate logs with different tags
for tag in App1 App2 App3; do
    adb shell "log -p i -t $tag 'Message from $tag'"
done

# Generate logs with increasing numbers
for i in {1..10}; do
    adb shell "log -p i -t TestApp 'Message number $i'"
done

# Rapid log generation (stress test)
for i in {1..100}; do
    adb shell "log -p i -t TestApp 'Stress test message $i'" &
done
```

### Testing Features
1. Test log level filtering:
   - Press 'e', 'w', 'i', 'd', 'v' to toggle different log levels
   - Generate logs of different levels to verify filtering

2. Test search functionality:
   - Press '/' to enter search mode
   - Type "error", "warning", or any other term
   - Press ESC to clear search

3. Test tail mode:
   - Press 't' to toggle tail mode
   - Generate new logs to verify auto-scroll
   - Use Up/Down arrows to navigate

4. Test storage:
```bash
# Test with default storage
cargo run -- -i --save

# Test with custom storage path
cargo run -- -i --save --save-path ./test_logs

# Test with smaller rotation size (1MB)
cargo run -- -i --save --max-size 1
```

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key          | Action                    |
|--------------|---------------------------|
| e/w/i/d/v    | Toggle log levels        |
| /            | Enter search mode        |
| Space        | Pause/resume logs        |
| t            | Toggle tail mode         |
| ↑/↓          | Scroll logs             |
| Home/g       | Jump to first log        |
| End/G        | Jump to latest log       |
| 1/2/3        | Switch views            |
| q            | Quit                     |
| Esc          | Clear search            |

Commit message:

feat(macos): Add macOS-specific optimizations and features
Add native macOS support with the following improvements:
- Implement native system notifications for error logs
- Add Command key shortcuts (⌘C, ⌘N)
- Integrate with system clipboard
- Add notification toggle functionality
- Improve status bar with colored indicators
- Add notification rate limiting (5s cooldown)
- Make notifications configurable

Technical changes:
- Add mac-notification-sys integration
- Make macOS features optional with feature flag
- Add clipboard context handling
- Improve status messages with colored output
- Fix trait conflicts between ratatui and colored
- Add notification state tracking

The macOS features are behind the 'macos' feature flag and can be enabled
with --features macos. Non-macOS platforms will continue to work without
these features.

Testing:
- Verified notifications work with error logs
- Tested clipboard integration
- Confirmed notification toggle works
- Validated status bar colors and formatting

README.md, after:

# DevInsight v0.1.0 🔍

## Installation

```bash
# Install directly from crates.io
cargo install devinsight

# Or build from source
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight.git
cd DevInsight
cargo install --path .
```

## Quick Start
```bash
# Basic TUI mode
devinsight -i

# TUI with log storage
devinsight -i --save

# Filter specific app logs
devinsight -i --tag MyApp
```

## Key Features in v0.1.0
- 🔄 Real-time log streaming with tail mode
- 🎨 Interactive filtering (e/w/i/d/v)
- 🔍 Full-text search with live results
- 💾 Automatic log storage and rotation
- 📊 Statistics view
- ⌨️ Intuitive keyboard shortcuts

# DevInsight: Real-time Log Analyzer for Developers 🚀

![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight/build.yml?branch=main)
![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight)

## Overview
**DevInsight** is a blazing-fast, Rust-powered log analysis tool designed for developers who need real-time Android log monitoring. Starting with **Android logcat**, DevInsight provides color-coded output, advanced filtering, and intelligent insights. Future expansions will include support for iOS syslogs, Docker logs, and cloud-based logging solutions.

## Features
✅ **Real-time log streaming** with color-coded output
✅ **Advanced filtering** by log level and tags
✅ **Multiple buffer support** (main, system, crash)
✅ **Flexible output formats**
✅ **Timestamp-based filtering**
✅ **Optimized Rust performance** for low-latency processing
✅ **macOS-specific optimizations:**
  - **Native system notifications for errors**
  - **Command key shortcuts (⌘C for copy, ⌘N for notification toggle)**
  - **Clipboard integration**

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Rust and Cargo
- Android Debug Bridge (ADB)
- Connected Android device or emulator

### Ubuntu/Linux
```bash
# Install Rust
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source $HOME/.cargo/env

# Install ADB for Android Debugging
sudo apt update && sudo apt install android-tools-adb -y

# Clone DevInsight Repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight.git
cd DevInsight
cargo build --release
```

### macOS
```bash
# Install Homebrew (if not already installed)
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install Rust
brew install rust

# Install ADB
brew install android-platform-tools

# Clone DevInsight Repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB/DevInsight.git
cd DevInsight
cargo build --release
```

## Usage

### Basic Commands
```bash
# Basic log viewing
cargo run

# Force color output (if needed)
FORCE_COLOR=1 cargo run
```

### Filtering Options
```bash
# Filter by log level
cargo run -- --filter E    # Show only errors
cargo run -- --filter W    # Show only warnings
cargo run -- --filter I    # Show only info
cargo run -- --filter D    # Show only debug
cargo run -- --filter V    # Show only verbose

# Filter by tag
cargo run -- --tag MyApp   # Show logs only from 'MyApp'

# Combine filters
cargo run -- --filter E --tag MyApp  # Show only errors from 'MyApp'
```

### Buffer Selection
```bash
# Select specific buffer
cargo run -- --buffer main    # Main buffer only
cargo run -- --buffer system  # System buffer only
cargo run -- --buffer crash   # Crash buffer only
```

### Output Formatting
```bash
# Change log format
cargo run -- --format brief    # Brief format
cargo run -- --format process  # Show process ID
cargo run -- --format thread   # Show thread info
cargo run -- --format raw      # Raw log output
cargo run -- --format tag      # Tag-focused format
```

### Log Management
```bash
# Clear logs before starting
cargo run -- --clear

# Show logs since specific time
cargo run -- --since "2024-03-20 10:00:00"
```

### Color Coding
The output is color-coded for better readability:
- 🔴 **Red** - Errors (E)
- ⚠️ **Yellow** - Warnings (W)
- ℹ️ **Green** - Info (I)
- 🔧 **Blue** - Debug (D)
- 📝 **White** - Verbose (V)

## Command Line Options
| Option | Short | Description |
|--------|--------|-------------|
| `--filter` | `-f` | Filter logs by level (E, W, I, D, V) |
| `--tag` | `-t` | Filter logs by specific tag |
| `--clear` | `-c` | Clear logs before starting |
| `--since` | `-T` | Show logs since timestamp |
| `--buffer` | `-b` | Select buffer (main, system, crash) |
| `--format` | `-v` | Set output format |

## Roadmap
🚀 **Phase 1 (Android Logcat MVP)**
- ✅ Basic CLI for streaming logs
- ✅ Error and warning filtering
- ✅ Custom tag-based search
- ⏳ Interactive TUI interface using `ratatui`

⚡ **Phase 2 (Advanced Logging & Expansion)**
- Persistent log storage for later analysis
- iOS syslog support
- Docker container log integration
- Cloud integration (GCP, AWS, Firebase logging)
- Automated issue detection & insights

## Contributing
We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:
1. Fork the repo and clone locally
2. Create a new feature branch (`git checkout -b feature-name`)
3. Make your changes and commit (`git commit -m "Added new feature"`)
4. Push to your fork and submit a Pull Request

## License
MIT License © 2024 Adam Deane

## Connect
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Adam_Deane-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-deane-93456927/)

### Log Storage
DevInsight now supports persistent log storage with automatic rotation:

```bash
# Save logs to file (default location: ./logs/logcat_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.jsonl)
cargo run -- --save

# Save logs in interactive mode
cargo run -- -i --save

# Specify custom save location
cargo run -- --save --save-path /path/to/logs
cargo run -- --save --save-path ~/android_logs    # Store in home directory
cargo run -- --save --save-path /tmp/my_logs      # Store in temporary directory

# Set maximum log file size before rotation (in MB)
cargo run -- --save --max-size 200
```

Logs are stored in JSONL format with the following features:
- Files named with timestamp pattern: `logcat_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.jsonl`
- Automatic log rotation based on file size
- Timestamp-based querying
- Device ID tracking
- Full log level and tag preservation

Example log file path:
```
./logs/logcat_20240321_143022.jsonl  # Default location
~/android_logs/logcat_20240321_143022.jsonl  # When using --save-path ~/android_logs
```

## Testing and Debugging

### Generate Test Logs
Use these commands to generate test logs with different levels and patterns:

```bash
# Generate multiple error logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p e -t TestApp 'Error message'"; done

# Generate warning logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p w -t TestApp 'Warning message'"; done

# Generate info logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p i -t TestApp 'Info message'"; done

# Generate debug logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p d -t TestApp 'Debug message'"; done

# Generate verbose logs
for i in {0..9}; do adb shell "log -p v -t TestApp 'Verbose message'"; done

# Generate mixed logs
for level in e w i d v; do
    adb shell "log -p $level -t TestApp 'Test message for level $level'"
done

# Generate logs with different tags
for tag in App1 App2 App3; do
    adb shell "log -p i -t $tag 'Message from $tag'"
done

# Generate logs with increasing numbers
for i in {1..10}; do
    adb shell "log -p i -t TestApp 'Message number $i'"
done

# Rapid log generation (stress test)
for i in {1..100}; do
    adb shell "log -p i -t TestApp 'Stress test message $i'" &
done
```

### Testing Features
1. Test log level filtering:
   - Press 'e', 'w', 'i', 'd', 'v' to toggle different log levels
   - Generate logs of different levels to verify filtering

2. Test search functionality:
   - Press '/' to enter search mode
   - Type "error", "warning", or any other term
   - Press ESC to clear search

3. Test tail mode:
   - Press 't' to toggle tail mode
   - Generate new logs to verify auto-scroll
   - Use Up/Down arrows to navigate

4. Test storage:
```bash
# Test with default storage
cargo run -- -i --save

# Test with custom storage path
cargo run -- -i --save --save-path ./test_logs

# Test with smaller rotation size (1MB)
cargo run -- -i --save --max-size 1
```

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key          | Action                    |
|--------------|---------------------------|
| e/w/i/d/v    | Toggle log levels        |
| /            | Enter search mode        |
| Space        | Pause/resume logs        |
| t            | Toggle tail mode         |
| ↑/↓          | Scroll logs             |
| Home/g       | Jump to first log        |
| End/G        | Jump to latest log       |
| 1/2/3        | Switch views            |
| q            | Quit                     |
| Esc          | Clear search            |
